Write for humans first and search engines second - Google algorithm gets smarter by the day and using constant human input, continues to better align with our thinking. That being said, there is no clever loophole or magic formula to outwit a search engine, so don't bother trying. Write for humans first and search engines second.
Write for humans first and search engines second - Ultimately, your priority should always be to provide your audience with what they are looking for, and that only comes through writing engaging and fundamentally naturalistic content. Anyone can spot a keyword that's been shoehorned in and stuffing is even more blatant, so fit them in where it makes sense and allow driving keywords to elevate your already informative and valuable content.
Use targeted keywords in all the right places - Whilst the motivation should always be humans first, search engines second, the bedrock of this whole process is keywords. Not only do they get to the heart of what visitors and Google are looking for by isolating common search terms, but SEO also drives 1000%+ more traffic than organic social media, which itself dominates over half of all online traffic. So, if keywords are at the heart of SEO, they should be at the heart of everything you do, too.
Focus on user experience (UX) - There is nothing worse than having to navigate a site that you can barely use. In fact, after more than a few seconds of frustration, most people don't bother and Google will struggle to make the best out of it too. Things like dead links, error pages, and messy site structures will all impact what people take away from your website.
Focus on user experience (UX) - Not only do users value a good experience and easy navigation, but this seamlessness also helps Google's crawlers scan your content and determine your SERP rankings. Use headings and short, easy to read paragraphs, tidy up your sub-folders, and optimize for mobile. All of these things will help to reduce your bounce rate, improve your rankings, and generate better conversion overall.
Focus on building relevant links - Another key aspect in building domain reputation/site authority is link-building. We've already touched upon why outbound/external links are important: you not only enhance the information you are providing but you can receive reciprocal backlinks through outreach, etc.
Improve existing content & add missing subtopics - Constant updates and battling with your competitors means that there's always work to be done, not to mention that you can still improve on what you've done already. If you haven't been using SEO properly already, going back and updating content with keywords, backlinks, and better readability is a great way to get started. You can even ensure that pages that have been performing better maintain traffic growth or build upon that standard by regularly updating them.
Identify page update opportunities - Making even small updates to a page signals to Google that it should crawl that page. As such, regular updates will help keep your pages fresh and relevant in the eyes of the search engine.
Target Relevant Primary and Secondary Keywords - Keyword research is the foundation of any good SEO strategy. If you know how to use keywords effectively, you can develop content that attracts more people to your website. The first step is to identify your page's primary and secondary keywords. Your primary keyword is the main focus of your content. You only need to pick one primary keyword per page. It should be relevant to what your page's focus, your brand identity, your products, and your services.  Your secondary keywords support the main topic. You will probably have several of these. Often, they're more granular than the primary keyword and represent subtopics you're covering throughout an article. Try to include them naturally in your content, but don't force them if they don't fit.
Write Quality Original Content - If you want users to find and return to your site, you need quality content that is original, comprehensive, and evergreen. Original content shows the audience your unique perspective and expertise and enables them to build a relationship with you. What's more, search engine algorithms, especially Google, are designed to sniff out unique content. Those who practice good SEO and publish trustworthy original content are likely to increase searches. Ideally, your content should be comprehensive. That means the content you publish answers everything a user might want to know about that topic. Comprehensive pages help show search engines that you're an authority on that topic.
Format Your Content for Search Engines & Target Featured Snippets - If you want the content you write to perform well, make sure you're answering the questions your audience is asking. One way to do this is to target featured snippets. Featured snippets appear at the top of the search results page on Google. They're designed to answer a user's question without requiring them to leave the page. They're highly visible, helpful, and likely to attract organic traffic since they appear before numbered results. You might also see them referred to as SERP features. These positions are highly sought after by digital marketers. To win one, you need to optimize your content to target them. The strategies you use to target featured snippets can make your content more helpful to readers and improve your SEO, even if you don't win the snippet in question.
Optimize Your Page Title and Meta Description - Your page title and meta description might be the first thing your audience ever sees. Users might decide whether to click or skip your page based on these alone. That's a lot of power for so few words, so make sure they're impactful. Typically, whatever platform you use to host your website offers an easy way to edit your page title and meta description. WordPress, for instance, offers two boxes labeled "SEO title" and "meta description."
Use Short, Descriptive URLs - Improving your URL structure can significantly impact your on-page SEO with relatively little effort. A clean URL can help search engines understand your page and gives you a more user-friendly appearance in the SERPs. Use keywords: Try to include your primary keyword, if you can. Be readable: When your visitor reads the URL, it should be easy for them to understand what the page is about. Be concise: Shorter URLs (around 60 characters) are preferable. That's because many search engines can't process longer URLs and might rank you lower as a result.
Generate Backlinks from High Site Authority Websites - Backlinks, or external links leading to your site, are a critical ranking factor. Links from reputable sources can increase your site's authority and improve your SEO over time. You can acquire those backlinks through a process called link building.
Study Your Competitors - Chances are, you and your biggest rivals are creating similar types of content and targeting a similar audience. By analyzing your competitors' websites, you can learn more about effective content mediums or generate new ideas for your content. 
Continue Learning About SEO - One thing every digital marketer knows: Google's algorithm is constantly changing, and as it does, the digital landscape continues to evolve. That's why educating yourself about SEO is crucial if you want to stay ahead and keep winning.
Use Keywords In The Right Places - You probably already know that you should add keywords to pages that you want to rank. But where you use your keywords is just as important as how many times you use them. Specifically, you want to make sure that your keyword appears at least once in your page's title tag, Webpage URL, and in the first 100 words of your content.
Keep Users On Your Site Longer - How do you keep users on your site longer? Use lots of bullets and subheadings. When your content is easy to read, people will spend more time on your site.
Delete Zombie Pages - Zombie pages are pages on your site that don't bring in any traffic. They're just sort of... there. And when you delete Zombie Pages, you can get higher rankings and more Google traffic. In fact: One ecommerce site saw a 31% boost in search engine traffic (not to mention a 28% increase in revenue) when they "pruned" 11k product pages. Why does this strategy work? Well, Google doesn't want to rank sites that are bloated with thin, low-quality content. In fact: Google stated that they prefer "one stronger page versus many smaller pages".
Add Related Keywords to Your Content - There's a lot more to on-page SEO than: "make sure to include your keyword a few times on your page." (Although that's important too.)  To rank in Google today, you also need to add synonyms and other related keywords to your content. Use our Related Keywords tool to get the best Related Keywords for your website.
Include variations of your main keyword in your content - To do that, just search for your target keyword in Google, and scroll down to the bottom of the search results, Add a few "Searches related to…" terms to your content. Rabbit SEO also provides you with keywords suggestions you can use in your content.
Add Text to Infographics, Podcasts and Videos - Visual content (like infographics and podcasts) is an awesome way to get traffic and backlinks. But they have one big problem: Google can't understand them!  That's why I recommend adding plenty of text to go along with your infographic, podcast or video.
Update Old Pages - Do you have a bunch of blog posts on your site collecting dust? If so, you can probably improve your rankings by updating that post. Let me show you how this works with a real-life example...
Create Content Around Shoulder Niches - Publishing high-quality content is one of the most important SEO tips. But what if you're in a so-called "boring" niche? Isn't it impossible to create content that people will link to or share on social media? Fortunately not. All you need to do is create content around "Shoulder Niches". Shoulder Niches are closely-related topics that you can easily create awesome content around.
Add "What is X" Definitions to Blog Content - This is one of the most important SEO tips that people tend to overlook. Here's how it works: When someone searches for a high-level term (like "search engine optimization"), they're usually looking for a definition.
Create Branded Keywords - First, develop a strategy, technique, process or concept that's unique to you. This sounds hard. But it really isn't. All you need to do is take something that already exists… and add a twist. Next, give it a name. This is more of an art than a science. But in general, you want the name to be: Short, Easy to pronounce, Easy to remember, Unique, Descriptive. Finally, get the word out. This is key.
Increased visibility: When your article is linked from other websites, it can increase your article's visibility and drive more traffic to your site. The more people that read and engage with your article, the better it will perform in search engine results pages.
Improved authority: When authoritative websites link to your article, it sends a signal to search engines that your content is trustworthy and valuable. This can improve your website's overall authority and increase your chances of ranking higher in search engine results pages.
Increased backlinks: Article links also contribute to your website's backlink profile. Backlinks are a key factor in determining search engine rankings. The more high-quality links you have pointing to your site, the more likely you are to rank well in search results.
Diversified anchor text: Article links can also help diversify your website's anchor text profile. Anchor text is the text that is used to link to your website. A diverse anchor text profile can improve your website's overall search engine rankings.
Improved credibility: When high-quality websites link to your article, it can improve your website's credibility and authority in the eyes of search engines. This can lead to higher search engine rankings, which is a key goal of SEO.